Date: 01-08-2025

#Creating the first log (Day 1)

I will start going over the book Invent Your Own Computer Games with Python 
by Al Sweigart. This book will teach me how a game is broken into state, logic,
players, turns, and such...

By working through the examples of the book, I will try to adapt its patterns,
applying what I learn to the board game I am also trying to simulate in Python.

Important Chapters to focus on today will be Chapter 1, The Python Interactive
Shell, and Chapter 2, Writing Programs. The Python interactive shell can be 
reached in VS Code via typing python in the VS Code terminal/powershell, but
more of this explained in paragraphs at the end of this note/text. I will go up
to Chapter 16 of the book. But, if anything else is needed to improve the board
game somehow, I will go over the other remaining chapters to see what can be 
used.

############# Chapter 1 #############
Learned about operators in Python, so addition, subtraction, multiplication, 
and division. I also learned something new about expressions in Python and how
they are evaluated...

In short, an expression is basically held together by an operator and values,
numbers around it. The operators tell Python what to do with the numbers, or 
values...these numbers, or values can either be integers, in short int, so
whole numbers, or they can be called floating point numbers otherwise known
as float, which can be fractions or numbers with decimal points.

When evaluating expressions in Python, there are three rules to know...it is 
that the part of expression that is inside of brackets get evaluated first,
multiplication and division must be done before addition and subtraction, and
Python evaluates expressions from left to right.

All of the above-mentioned must be kept in mind...also, that expressions must
not start, or begin with spaces...there can be as many spaces between a number,
or value and an operator tho. And that the size of an expression matters not,
it will eventually be returned as a single value which can be used by code.

NOTE: I also learned about Python powershell being the Python terminal in VS
Code, and that they differ from Python interpreter. You can press Ctrl plus 
button under Esc to easily make a new terminal, or go to the top of Explorer.
To get to Python interpreter, you need to type python into the powershell, or
terminal. You will notice that if you try to evaluate the expression 14/2 in
powershell, or terminal, you'd get 7. But if you do the same in Python's
interpreter, you'd see the value returned as a float, or floating point number,
i.e. 7.0. I think the result from evaluating the expressions are called the
true values? I will check tomorrow... Ah... and to move between powershell, or
terminal, and the Python interpreter, you need to type python, which takes you
from powershell, or terminal, to interpreter. And then to go back, you must
just type Ctrl+Z and press Enter, or exit() + Enter. 

#### Tomorrow I must go over syntax errors and storing values in variables...
which will then be the end of Chapter 1. I will then start with Chapter 2,
Writing Programs, afterwards ####